# Inference and cluster analysis with missing data for complex matched pairs by maximum mean discrepancy: An application to continuous glucose monitoring.

A frequent problem in statistical science is how to handle missing observations in matched paired situations properly. Several strategies for the univariate case addressed this issue, but extensions to more complex settings are scarce. They contradict the urgent demand in modern medical research to analyze more complex data, e.g., functional digital biomarkers such as those provided by continuous glucose monitors or that arise different connectivity brain networks. In order to fill this gap, this paper proposes new estimators of the maximum mean discrepancy (MMD) to handle complex matched paired missing data. The novel approach can detect differences in the distribution or specific moments with complex statistical objects and can be used to perform cluster analysis. Its theoretical validity is proven and illustrated by an extensive simulation study, and results of statistical consistency are presented. The potential of our data analysis tools is exemplified by discussing a recent population-based diabetes study, AEGIS, in which longitudinal information evolution of glucose homeostasis with continuous glucose monitoring technology (CGM) is available, but there are significant losses in the follow-ups. Finally, employing the new distributional representations together with clustering analysis,  we obtain new clinical criteria on how glucose changes vary at the distributional level over five years that can inspire, for instance, new risk alert systems and new population stratification that characterize the deviation at five years of glucose profiles between two temporal points
